README.md, before:

Stiffness Short Article
=====================

Development of a paper on stiffness and critical stiffness for submission
to a peer-review journal. Nature Geoscience?

## Chris/Demian Actions and Questions
- Edit title suggestions (90 char. max with spaces)
- Look at reference list
- Do we want to make the figure of the biax B&W only to save on printing?
- Do we want to make the RSF parameters figure B&W to save on printing?
- Begin draft review

## How to Review with Git
- Make a new branch and check it out: ex. *>> git checkout -b cjm_edits*
- Do your edits to the files. Please don't change the line wrapping as it makes diffs harder to look at
- Save the files
- Check the changes git sees: *>> git status* The files should be listed under **modified**.
If there are other files listed or problems, let me know.
- Add and commit the changes *>> git commit -am "Your commit message"*
- Push to the remote repo *>> git push origin cjm_edits*
- Done! (Don't forget to switch back to your master branch if you want!)

## Remaining Experiments for This Article:
- Acrylic center (fine tooth, thick) at 4 MPa Normal Stress with
unload/reload cycles

## List of Supplemental Material
- Raw Data
- Table of experiments
- Table of RSF step fits

Commit message:

Update with Marone's comments and minor plot modifications

README.md, after:

Stiffness Short Article
=====================

Development of a paper on stiffness and critical stiffness for submission
to a peer-review journal. Nature Geoscience?

# Chris' Main Points
- We need a clean, complete experiment.  Figure 1, or some version of it, can be an inset to that. The current Fig. 1 would go in supp. materials
- Fig 2, or 1b, should focus on time series showing the emergence of slow stick-slip and the details of it. This fig. will emphasize the observation(s) and the resolution of our measurements –proving that we see flow slip and that we have stable, clean measurements.
- Replace Fig. 2a with a fric. displ. curve showing vel. step –or just omit 2a.  Figs 2b and 2c show the main story.
- Fig 4 is too busy; data are noisy.
- Fig 5 needs annotations. We need to clean up the estimates of Kc.


## Chris/Demian Actions and Questions
- Edit title suggestions (90 char. max with spaces)
- Look at reference list

## How to Review with Git
- Make a new branch and check it out: ex. *>> git checkout -b cjm_edits*
- Do your edits to the files. Please don't change the line wrapping as it makes diffs harder to look at
- Save the files
- Check the changes git sees: *>> git status* The files should be listed under **modified**.
If there are other files listed or problems, let me know.
- Add and commit the changes *>> git commit -am "Your commit message"*
- Push to the remote repo *>> git push origin cjm_edits*
- Done! (Don't forget to switch back to your master branch if you want!)

## Remaining Experiments for This Article:
- Acrylic center (fine tooth, thick) at 4 MPa Normal Stress with
unload/reload cycles

## List of Supplemental Material
- Raw Data
- Table of experiments
- Table of RSF step fits
